// Status=review

Controls related to frequency selection, received audio level, the
station being called, and date and time are found at lower left of the
main window:

//.Misc Controls Left
image::misc-main-ui.png[align="center",alt="Misc Menu Items"]

* A drop-down list of frequencies and bands at upper left lets you
select the operating band and sets dial frequency to a value taken
from the *Frequencies* tab on the *Settings* window.  If CAT control
is active the radio's dial frequency will be set accordingly; if not,
you must tune the radio manually.

* Alternatively, you can enter a frequency (in MHz) or band name in
recognized ADIF format, for example 630m, 20m, or 70cm.  The band-name
format works only if a working frequency has been set up on that band,
in which case the first working frequency on that band is
selected. 

* If you are using CAT control, a small colored circle appears in
green if the CAT control is activated and functional.  The green
circle contains the character S if the rig is detected to be in
*Split* mode.  The circle becomes red if you have requested CAT
control but communication with the radio has been lost.

IMPORTANT: Many Icom rigs cannot be queried for split status, current
VFO or split transmit frequency.  Consequently you should not change
the current VFO, split status or frequency using controls on the radio
when using _WSJT-X_ with an Icom radio.

* If *DX Grid* contains a valid Maidenhead locator, the corresponding
great-circle azimuth and distance from your location are displayed.

* The program can maintain a database of callsigns and locators for
future reference.  Click *Add* to insert the present call and locator
in the database; click *Lookup* to retrieve the locator for a
previously stored call.  This feature is mainly useful for situations
in which the number of active stations is modest and reasonably
stable, such as EME (Earth-Moon-Earth) communication.
